Welcome back while playing with visual go.
Did you notice a problem with binary search trees if not let me demonstrate something to you.
Let's say I keep inserting here let's say 86
and then while that's going I'll also insert 90
and finally I'll insert ninety nine.
All right.
What is the problem with this.
Well you can imagine a situation where we have this really unbalanced binary search tree where all the
nodes just keep getting added to the right to the right to the right to the right.
If we imagine that we deem and have this section this all of a sudden turns into a Link List where we're
just looping through every single note.
This is a big problem that comes with binary search trees.
That is you can have balanced search trees like the one right here.
That gives us this log and performance but then also have unbalanced ones where it sort of turns into
a long linked list where instead of being able to do the log and operations you now have to move through
every single note and look up and searches become o event or linear time and you even saw in our visual
go demonstration how slow it took to insert items because they had to loop through so many things.
One of the keys that you'll have to remember and this is a question that you might get asked in interviews
is why an unbalanced binary search tree is bad.
And I hope this demonstrates why it's not a good idea.
Ideally we want to balance our search trees so that we can have this performance optimization if we
go to our big O Chichi.
We see that with binary search trees that we have all log of N for most things which is average.
But when it comes to worst case when we have an unbalanced tree that all operations are O then or linear
time.
So you might be asking yourself how do you balance a tree and luckily for us there's algorithms that
help us do that.
It is really advanced and we will talk about it after we build our own tree and some of the options
that we have.
For example we have things like a V L trees and red black trees that allow us to make sure that our
binary search tree is going to be balanced luckily for us they are built in most programming languages
and an interview questions they won't really ask you to balance a binary circuitry because well it can
get pretty complicated and time consuming and interviews usually don't have enough time to get you to
do that.
The idea is to be able to talk about it and know that there are ways to balance a surgery and be able
to talk about the tradeoffs just like we did.
Now we're going to talk about these two ways of balancing this surgery in an upcoming video but for
now let's just focus on the basics in the next video.
I want to talk about the pros and cons of using something like a binary search tree.
And then finally implement our own I'll see in the next one by.